in this video we are going to be talking
on how to perform basic operations
understands doing multiplication subtraction
and division but with complex numbers
The first thing is to make sure that we have
the proper configuration
let's go to mod make sure you're
in gracián mode it is
that the coordinates you chose are
rectangular the other options are
polar and spherical
that the mode is complex that finds it
under the case here complex mode
that is in rough mode in this
moment we are in exact mode not
matter it may be that at some point
when the calculator is doing
some operation asks you to change to mode
approximate that is normal is not any
problem just say yes
and finally for a matter of
convenience let's make sure that
we are in rpm mode
ok the first thing is to make sure to enter
a complex number we can not go into
one of three ways or in cartesian form
which is what we're usually with
accustomed where the number is expressed
one way to more bay
it can also be like an ordered pair
where the first number is the part of
create and the second the imaginary part and
finally you can enter in the form
polar the important thing is that it does not matter in
which of these forms gives you the number
to the calculator the calculator always
it's going to change that the one that corresponds
with the way in which the
calculator in this case the calculator
is in Cartesian mode what
it means that if I'm going to go through
example this number in polar form
let say
5 eat this sign entered angle
pressing the alpha key then the one
point to the right and after the number
6 and then 0.9 273 when he pressed
enter the calculator automatically what
changes to the way the calculator is
which is in rectangular mode is not
exactly 3 and 4 because the second
part of the number in polar form is a
approach so that's what you're
see the difference
having explained that then we're going to
make at least one of each of
the basic operations
these are the problems that we are going to
work I will pray the screen the
first it would be five minus two and so
it would be 5.2 negative enter and the second 3
plus 4 today I'm going to enter mode
algebraic to practical mode would be 34
I was multiplied
so the sign of big x brings the
left and here is the and
and enter and then now I'm going to
subtract
evans and note that the calculator as
we had indicated he asks me to change to mode
approximate there is no problem with
I say yes and here is the
result
It could be the case that once
I have a complex number in this way
of unemployment the swim needs it in form
winning polar provides some mechanisms
using vectors
but in reality the easiest way is
change the mode from Cartesian to polar or
vice versa according to the case for that the
traditional way would be to change it
here but it is a reality leads to
many keys so the best thing is
create a custom menu if you do not know
how to do it watch this video that explains
all the details I'm going to do
fast here without going into much detail
so it would be
I open the keys and the 2 - I need
They are ceiling
it would be like this
green
and the other is network
rectangular
press enter
now I'm going to invoke the men me command
enter and that what it does is that it's going to
place here in this soft menu if by
some reason I left that menu the
way to go back to you are squeezing the
key that points to the left and mode
to access the cost command and that
take it back to this menu if you pressed
here
schilling will take me to the
polar coordinates note that what he did
it was that he changed the mode
and pressed network takes me back to
the rectangular coordinates again
what he is doing is changing the
so what I provided is a shortcut for
not having to go through all the
traditional process so let's
continue with the next ones that would be 5
minus 2 and I'm going to go into mode
algebraic here would be 5 less
two
can enter the full operation
+ 34
by iu
bar people
the next one would be 3 - and
if it were not to enter motogp n it would be 3
enter
and it's next I'm going to enter between
quotes would be key that points to the
left and
enter minus the next 24 and
so it would be let's say two minus four
for i
enter
by the bar
the other is the division
5 - 2 x
enter
and 34 and 34 x
/
and the last one that is 1 between 34 today
would be
34 x
enter and then an envelope x eval and there
are all the results are there in
the Cartesian orderly stop mode if
I tighten here they would have them in polar mode
for now basically that's all
we learned how to add subtract multiply
and divide complex numbers too
we saw how to change between coordinates
polar and rectangular coordinates
using the traditional mode through
the mount key or simply creating
a personalized menu to have those
two commands available at all times
and we also learned how to enter the
complex numbers in both polar form
as in rectangular shape